
>> major concerns

#1 Biased correlations.

The authors should better motivate the use of the "mode" to stablish the
correlations between structural and logical coupling. Table 4 shows an example
in which the use of the "mode" would make sense, since it's clear that the
number of references of the UrSQLController-UrSQLEntity pair was 15 during
almost of its entire history. Nevertheless, given the scale of the projects
and different domains that are studies, the evolution of structural coupling
may be much different for other cases. Consider the example below:


Pair X.java - Y.java

revisions    # references
1            1
2            3
3            5
4            6
5            6
6            7
7            8
8            30
9            30
10           30

In this example, the "mode" would be 30. However, the number of references was
much lower most of the pair's history. In such cases, I would argue for the use of the
"median" rather than "mode" in order to avoid bias in the correlations between
structural and logical coupling.

#2 Not really a strong predictor.

On page 12 in Section 6.12, the authors state that "The structural coupling
between two classes is therefore a strong predictor of future unplanned and
necessary co-changes." I would not say so. Indeed, the authors observed that
structural coupling is associated with logical coupling in 81% of the cases
(in their data). Nevertheless, the authors did not analyze such an
association considering the temporal nature of the data. For example, did all of
the co-changes happen after the introduction of a given structural coupling in
this 81%? How many co-changes are usually performed in the future after the
addition of the structural coupling? The authors did not performed a temporal
analysis to state that one kind of coupling is a strong predictor of the
other. Instead, the authors only analyze the intersection observed in the data
regardless of the time at which the events happened. I would remove the term
"strong predictor" or add an additional temporal analysis to motivate such an
statement.

#3 Are the structural and logical coupling really related in your analyses?

In RQ3, the authors investigate the stability of the structural links. Such an
analysis is based on the time at which a given co-change was performed during
the lifecycle of a structural link. The major issue with this analysis is: how
did the authors identify that a co-change is related to a given structural
link? For example, considering the pair that is shown in Figure 4 (C1-C2).
Would a co-change between C1-C2 be considered to the analysis that is
performed in RQ3 if such an co-change neither change the variable "gv" nor the
function "func()"? Such detail is not explained in the methodology of RQ3. For
example, if a co-change to C1-C2 involved an external configuration file
rather than the structural links between them, I do not believe that such an
co-change should be considered in the analysis of RQ3, since this co-change
could have been performed due external reasons that are not related to the
structural link that is being analyzed.

>> minor concerns

The authors should better clarify  the importance of the problem that they are
addressing. For instance, why investigating structural and logical coupling is
important? And why investigating the interplay between them is important?
Indeed, the authors list applications of studying such an interplay, but this
motivation should come earlier in the introduction.

Sometimes the authors are too optimistic about the selling of their work. For
example, on page 3, Section 2.3, the authors state: "To our knowledge there
have only been a few studies that have been performed to understand the
relationship between co-evolution and structural coupling." However, the
authors cite 9 papers that have already studied such a specific problem.
Thus, the word "several studies" rather than "few studies" better describes
the situation. Please change the wording. 

There is no need to say how laborious was the work. For example, on page 6 the
authors state: "this phase was the most time-intensive" or "this phase of the
methodology was also very laborious". The value of your research will not be
evaluated by how difficult was to operationalize it. Please, remove such
statements.

The authors should be more specific when describing the limitations of prior
work. For example, on page 3, the authors state that the authors of prior work
"acknowledge that their results are not really reliable." Why exactly their
results are not really reliable? Please, such vague wording (too many
adjectives) during the text.


